README.md, before:

# DYD

[![CI](https://github.com/synchronal/dyd/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/synchronal/dyd/actions)
[![Hex
pm](http://img.shields.io/crates/v/dyd.svg?style=flat)](https://crates.io/crates/dyd)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/github/license/synchronal/dyd.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/synchronal/dyd/blob/main/LICENSE.md)

Daily diff.

This command line tool facilitates the viewing of git diffs across
multiple projects, across multiple days. See what you're doing across
teams, and across all the git repos your teams manage.

## Sponsorship 💕

This library is part of the [Synchronal suite of libraries and
tools](https://github.com/synchronal) which includes more than 15 open
source Elixir libraries as well as some Rust libraries and tools.

You can support our open source work by [sponsoring
us](https://github.com/sponsors/reflective-dev). If you have specific
features in mind, bugs you'd like fixed, or new libraries you'd like to
see, file an issue or contact us at
[<contact@reflective.dev>](mailto:contact@reflective.dev).

## Installation

via homebrew:

``` shell
brew tap synchronal/tap
brew install dyd
```

via cargo:

``` shell
cargo install dyd
```

Configure git with a GUI difftool:

``` toml
[diff]
  tool = Kaleidoscope
  guitool = Kaleidoscope
[difftool]
  prompt = false
[difftool "Kaleidoscope"]
  cmd = ksdiff --partial-changeset --relative-path \"$MERGED\" -- \"$LOCAL\" \"$REMOTE\"
[mergetool "Kaleidoscope"]
  cmd = ksdiff --merge --output \"$MERGED\" --base \"$BASE\" -- \"$LOCAL\" --snapshot \"$REMOTE\" --snapshot
  trustExitCode = true
```

## Usage

Create a manifest file at `dyd.toml` with the following format:

``` toml
since = "3 days ago"
#       "  ^^^^ days | weeks | months

## difftool = "my diff tool"
difftool = "git"     # Uses the configured default GUI difftool.
difftool = "github"  # Uses the `open` command to open a diff in the GitHub site.
difftool = "git difftool --dir-diff --tool=intellij -y ${DIFF}" # Arbitrary commands may be set.

[remotes]

[remotes.dyd]
name = "DYD"
origin = "git@github.com:synchronal/dyd"

[remotes.tui]
name = "TUI"
origin = "git@github.com:fdehau/tui-rs"

[remotes.tui]
name = "TUI"
origin = "git@github.com:fdehau/tui-rs"
```

- `since` - Must be in the format `<N>` `<units>` `ago`. Defaults to
  `1 week ago`.
- `difftool` - Optional command to run in order to open a diff. Defaults
  to `git difftool -g -y ${DIFF}`.
  - Variables that will be interpolated into the command, and also made
    available in the difftool ENV. **IMPORTANT**: variables will
    **only** be replaced if they are in the format `${VAR}`, including
    braces.
    - `DIFF` - in the format `@{u}..HEAD`.
    - `DYD_PWD` - the working directory that `dyd` was run from.
    - `ORIGIN` - the origin used to check out the repository, ie
      `git@github.com:<org>/<repo>(.git)?`
    - `REF_FROM` - the sha of the earlier commit of the diff.
    - `REF_TO` - the sha of the more recent commit of the diff. `HEAD`.
- `remotes` - a list of remote repositories to clone and pull.
  - `name` - Text to show in the UI.
  - `origin` - The git origin from which to pull.
  - `branch` - An optional branch to show diffs from. Depends on being
    able to view logs via `origin/{branch}`.

Ensure that your shell is authorized with the origin. DYD will *not*
route input to the SSH agent.

``` shell
ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
```

Open the diff tool:

``` shell
dyd -m dyd.toml
dyd --manifest dyd.toml
DYD_MANIFEST_PATH="dyd.toml" dyd diff
```

Keymap:

``` text
h l <left> <right> <tab> - switch panes
j k <up> <down> - change current selection
d - open git gui difftool
q <esc> - quit
```

## Other difftools

### GitHub (browser)

When all repos in a manifest have their origins in GitHub, `dyd` can be
configured to open diffs in the system's default browser.

*Add to your `dyd.toml` manifest file:*

``` toml
difftool = "github"
```

### IntelliJ IDEA

(You can [download IntelliJ IDEA Community
Edition](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/#section=mac) for free,
which has a pretty good graphical difftool.)

*Add to your `~/.gitconfig` file:*

``` toml
[diff]
    tool = intellij
    guitool = intellij
[difftool "intellij"]
    cmd = open -nWa 'IntelliJ IDEA CE.app' --args diff $(realpath "$LOCAL") $(realpath "$REMOTE")
[difftool]
    prompt=false
```

*Add to your `dyd.toml` manifest file:*

``` toml
difftool = "git difftool --dir-diff --tool=intellij -y ${DIFF}"
```

### Others

- gitx
- kdiff3
- ???

## References

- <https://github.com/orhun/rust-tui-template>

Commit message:

Include the global configuration in the README

README.md, after:

# DYD

[![CI](https://github.com/synchronal/dyd/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/synchronal/dyd/actions)
[![Hex
pm](http://img.shields.io/crates/v/dyd.svg?style=flat)](https://crates.io/crates/dyd)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/github/license/synchronal/dyd.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/synchronal/dyd/blob/main/LICENSE.md)

Daily diff.

This command line tool facilitates the viewing of git diffs across
multiple projects, across multiple days. See what you're doing across
teams, and across all the git repos your teams manage.

## Sponsorship 💕

This library is part of the [Synchronal suite of libraries and
tools](https://github.com/synchronal) which includes more than 15 open
source Elixir libraries as well as some Rust libraries and tools.

You can support our open source work by [sponsoring
us](https://github.com/sponsors/reflective-dev). If you have specific
features in mind, bugs you'd like fixed, or new libraries you'd like to
see, file an issue or contact us at
[<contact@reflective.dev>](mailto:contact@reflective.dev).

## Installation

via homebrew:

``` shell
brew tap synchronal/tap
brew install dyd
```

via cargo:

``` shell
cargo install dyd
```

Configure git with a GUI difftool:

``` toml
[diff]
  tool = Kaleidoscope
  guitool = Kaleidoscope
[difftool]
  prompt = false
[difftool "Kaleidoscope"]
  cmd = ksdiff --partial-changeset --relative-path \"$MERGED\" -- \"$LOCAL\" \"$REMOTE\"
[mergetool "Kaleidoscope"]
  cmd = ksdiff --merge --output \"$MERGED\" --base \"$BASE\" -- \"$LOCAL\" --snapshot \"$REMOTE\" --snapshot
  trustExitCode = true
```

## Usage

Create a manifest file at `dyd.toml` with the following format:

``` toml
since = "3 days ago"
#       "  ^^^^ days | weeks | months

## difftool = "my diff tool"
difftool = "git"     # Uses the configured default GUI difftool.
difftool = "github"  # Uses the `open` command to open a diff in the GitHub site.
difftool = "git difftool --dir-diff --tool=intellij -y ${DIFF}" # Arbitrary commands may be set.

[remotes]

[remotes.dyd]
name = "DYD"
origin = "git@github.com:synchronal/dyd"

[remotes.tui]
name = "TUI"
origin = "git@github.com:fdehau/tui-rs"

[remotes.tui]
name = "TUI"
origin = "git@github.com:fdehau/tui-rs"
```

- `since` - Must be in the format `<N>` `<units>` `ago`. Defaults to
  `1 week ago`.
- `difftool` - Optional command to run in order to open a diff. Defaults
  to `git difftool -g -y ${DIFF}`.
  - Variables that will be interpolated into the command, and also made
    available in the difftool ENV. **IMPORTANT**: variables will
    **only** be replaced if they are in the format `${VAR}`, including
    braces.
    - `DIFF` - in the format `@{u}..HEAD`.
    - `DYD_PWD` - the working directory that `dyd` was run from.
    - `ORIGIN` - the origin used to check out the repository, ie
      `git@github.com:<org>/<repo>(.git)?`
    - `REF_FROM` - the sha of the earlier commit of the diff.
    - `REF_TO` - the sha of the more recent commit of the diff. `HEAD`.
- `remotes` - a list of remote repositories to clone and pull.
  - `name` - Text to show in the UI.
  - `origin` - The git origin from which to pull.
  - `branch` - An optional branch to show diffs from. Depends on being
    able to view logs via `origin/{branch}`.

Ensure that your shell is authorized with the origin. Dyd will *not*
route input to the SSH agent.

``` shell
ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
```

Open the diff tool:

``` shell
dyd -m dyd.toml
dyd --manifest dyd.toml
DYD_MANIFEST_PATH="dyd.toml" dyd diff
```

Keymap:

``` text
h l <left> <right> <tab> - switch panes
j k <up> <down> - change current selection
d - open git gui difftool
q <esc> - quit
```

## Global configuration

Dyd may be configured globally via a config file at
`~/.config/dyd/dyd.toml`. This file supports the following values:

- `theme` - (`auto`, `light`, `dark`) - the color theme to apply, if the
  default theme detection does not work.

## Other difftools

### GitHub (browser)

When all repos in a manifest have their origins in GitHub, `dyd` can be
configured to open diffs in the system's default browser.

*Add to your `dyd.toml` manifest file:*

``` toml
difftool = "github"
```

### IntelliJ IDEA

(You can [download IntelliJ IDEA Community
Edition](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/#section=mac) for free,
which has a pretty good graphical difftool.)

*Add to your `~/.gitconfig` file:*

``` toml
[diff]
    tool = intellij
    guitool = intellij
[difftool "intellij"]
    cmd = open -nWa 'IntelliJ IDEA CE.app' --args diff $(realpath "$LOCAL") $(realpath "$REMOTE")
[difftool]
    prompt=false
```

*Add to your `dyd.toml` manifest file:*

``` toml
difftool = "git difftool --dir-diff --tool=intellij -y ${DIFF}"
```

### Others

- gitx
- kdiff3
- ???

## References

- <https://github.com/orhun/rust-tui-template>
